---
author: George McNinch
title: Notes - Commutative Rings
date: 2025-01-15
---

See [Stewart, chapter 16] [^1] for general results about commutative rings.

# Commutative rings

In the lecture today, we define the notion of a *ring*:

**Definition** A ring $R$ is an additive abelian group together with
an operation of multiplication $R \times R \to R$ given by $(a,b)
\mapsto a \cdot b$ such that the following axioms hold:

- multiplication is *associative*
- multiplication *distributes* over addition: for every $a,b,c \in R$ we have [^2]
  $$a (b+c) = ab + ac$$
  and
  $$(b+c)a = ba + ca$$

We say that the ring $R$ is *commutative* if the operation of
multiplication is commutative; i.e. if $ab = ba$ for all $a,b\in R$.

And we say that $R$ has identity if multiplication has an identity,
i.e. if there is an element $1_R \in R$ such that $a \cdot 1_R = 1_R \cdot a = a$
for every $a \in R$. [^3]

In the course, we will consider (almost?) exclusively rings which are
commutative and have identity.

Here are some examples of commutative rings:


- $\mathbb{Z}$, $\mathbb{Q}$, $\mathbb{R}$,  $\mathbb{C}$

- if $X$ is a set and if $R$ is a commutative ring, the set $X^R$ of
  all $R$-valued functions on $X$ can be viewed as a commutative ring
  in a natural way.

# Polynomial rings

If $R$ is a commutative ring, the collection of all polynomials in the
variable $T$ having coefficients in $R$ is denoted $R[T]$.

Notice that the set of *monomials* $S = \{T^i \mid i \in \mathbb{N}\}$
has the following properties:

- every element of $R[T]$ is an $R$-linear combination of elements of
  $S$. This just amounts to the statement that every polynomial $f(T) \in R[T]$ has the form
  $$f(T) = \sum_{i=0}^N a_i T^i$$
  for a suitable $N \ge 0$ and suitable coefficients $a_i \in R$.


- the elements of $S$ are linearly independent  
  i.e. if $$\sum_{i=0}^N a_i T^i = 0 \quad \text{for} \quad a_i \in
  R,$$ then $a_i = 0$ for every $i$.

Polynomials in $R[T]$ can be added in a natural way. (This is just
like adding vectors in a vector space).

And there is a product operation on polynomials, as follows: if $f(T)
= \displaystyle \sum_{i=0}^N a_i T^i$ and $g(T) = \displaystyle
\sum_{i=0}^M b_i T^i$ then
$$f(T) \cdot g(T) = \sum_{i=0}^{N+M} c_i T^i
\quad \text{where} \quad c_i = \sum_{s+t = i} a_s b_t.$$

**Proposition:** $R[T]$ is a commutative ring with identity.

[^1]: As noted in the [course syllabus](/course-pages/Math146--course-syllabus.html), [Tisch
  library](https://tischlibrary.tufts.edu/) has an [entry for this
  item
  here](https://tufts.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/permalink/01TUN_INST/1fml38t/cdi_informaworld_taylorfrancisbooks_10_1201_9781003213949_version2);
  click to find online access to the text *Galois Theory*, Ian Stewart. (CRC Press, 4th edition 2022).

[^2]: We often just denote multiplication by juxtaposition: i.e. we
    may write $ab$ instead of $a \cdot b$ for $a,b\in R$

[^3]: Usually we write $1$ for $1_R$. The idea is that $1_R$ is the
multiplicative identity of $R$. For example, the identity matrix
$\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 \end{bmatrix}$ is the multiplicative
identity $1_R$ of the matrix ring $R=\operatorname{Mat}_2(\mathbb{R})$.
